# Hitting the ball good
---
## Intro

The title may be a little stupid but at a lower level I commonly see mistakes of players making touches on the ball that are simply not good. You may think that there is no baseline to how to hit the ball, but if you want the most control and power while hitting the ball there are a few things to keep in mind that will help you understand how you should be approaching hitting the ball. Once these guidelines are set going for things like power clears/shots will make a lot more sense as well as soft control touches.

## The Nose

Using the nose of your car is the ***most*** important thing when it comes to maximizing power when hitting the ball. When you see high level players go for clears or shots you will often see them hit the ball with the nose of their car. There are only certain situations where they will use other parts of their car to hit the ball (Ex. top of car when hitting a double tap). The nose also includes the corners of the front side of your car which sometimes may produce more power than using the front part of the nose (Ex. when you are to the side of the ball). Sometimes you may want to air roll a little bit if you need to jump up for a ball and hit it with your nose. Get used to this, this will be important for power shots and shooting in general. To practice hitting the ball with the nose of your car you can go into freeplay and do something similar to the ballchasing drill, but instead of just hitting the ball and following up as fast as you can, the main focus should be to **read where the ball is going, reposition for it, wait for the ball if you are too fast, then hitting it again with your nose**. This method will also help practice your power clears and reads off the wall. I will be mentioning this method again when I go over power clears.

## The Underside/Wheels

Have you tried hitting the ball but felt like you got no power on it? Did it look like you just slapped it and it's now rolling at 10kph? You may have hit it with your wheels or the underside of your car. Your wheels will typically produce the least amount of power when hitting the ball and flipping into it. The underside as well, but again in certain situations it may produce enough power (Ex. again, double taps). If you are trying to go for max power on the ball and hitting it as hard as you can **avoid hitting the ball with your wheels/underside**. If you are trying to hit the ball softly either for a pass or so you can keep the ball in front of you, then yes, you want to hit the ball with your wheels. Sometimes you may even want to not flip at all and just tap the ball with your wheels to keep the ball in front of you, this is what is called catching the ball and taking possession. This is a good skill to learn as it can lead into ground plays such as dribbles, power shots/clears, or dribbling into a power shot. To practice this you want to do a similar training method as mentioned before with hitting the ball with your nose, but the repeating action will be different. **After hitting the ball against the wall you will want to read where it is going, reposition for it, and single jump while tilting back to tap the ball with your wheels**. This will put the ball in front of you where you want repeat the same drill. If you want to practice passing the ball by getting soft touches with your wheel to send the ball close mid, you can grab your teammate, go into online freeplay (OFP), and do a passing drill. I will showcase a video featuring it as a part of this section.

