# Mechanics

Mechanics are the core of rocket league, the pro scene is in an execution meta and every pro is consistent at practically every mechanic they do. Of course we are not pro level players but there are some ***extremely*** important mechanics that players at every level should know, practice, or learn.

## Beginning

We aren't going to dive right into anything advanced because trying to learn to flip reset before even knowing how to rotate and hit the ball well is just a death trap that is the reason a lot of players are hard stuck in their rank or are capped in the learning capability until they humble up. So for the beginning we will focus primarily on interacting with the ball at a fundamental level such as hitting the ball with the nose of the car, flipping into the ball, and controlling how hard or soft we hit the ball. As you learn these fundamentals things like controlling the ball will start to make sense and you may start feeling inclined to try and go for controlling plays. I will not advise against these as it will be the focus of the next part, but I will advise not focusing too hard on only controlling the ball at all times as this is the trap of the 1s mindset, in 2s controlling the ball is good but sometimes a good clear from one half of the field to the next or a bang out mid for your teammate to score off of is a lot better in multiple different scenarios.

## Intermediate
At this point we should have an understanding of how to hit the ball hard and soft. So in this section we will focus more on the soft part as we will learn how to control the ball. This will be about different types of dribbles and flicks. We will also learn about how to fly up for the ball and getting basic touches when needed. Learning how to be strong on the ground is very important as it is the basis of strong offense. Once you are a threat on the ground the air is the only other safe space that your opponent will want to force you into, we will go more into this in the next section **if we get through everything at a good pace**. I would rather some of these skills be absolutely solidifed into muscle memory instead of getting them to a decent spot and moving on to the next thing. There are GCs that struggle mechanically with some of these things and it is the reason why we could still win even if there are GC1+ players that sign up for this tournament. For now the only type of aerial play I want to be getting into in this section is just enough so that if the opponent hits the ball into the air or one of you hit the ball high up for a pass then it is possible to go up for the ball instead of being glued to the ground. There are more threatening aerial plays you can go for but I do not want to focus on those and fall into the trap of not having core concepts be complete. 

## Endgame

This is the absolute peak of the mountain, this section will contain tools that are not fundamental or needed to play optimal rocket league but will allow for scarier offense and transitions out of defense. I will only get into and write up this section if we get through everything at a decent enough pace and have core concepts covered in the other two sections at a good understanding and executional level. A lot of this will be aerial play as the ability to fly in rocket league is one of the ***main*** reasons this game is as freeform and execution heavy as it is. Air dribbles will be the start and if the car and ball control in the air looks good I'll go into more specific mechanics like setting up double taps, redirects, etc. I may also write up small parts of this section for the last week before the tournament if I feel like it could be beneficial even if we are not at a good standing on the fundamental concepts.
